Add a page for the management canister (#2531)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/smart-contracts/advanced-features/management-canister.mdx

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ICP Management Canister

## Overview

The ICP management canister is used to provide access to system features, such as managing canisters, integrating with bitcoin, making HTTP outcalls, signing with tECDSA, and securely retrieving randomness.

The management canister is a virtual canister in the sense that it does not exist with an isolated state or Wasm module, but rather is implemented as part of ICP itself. For most practical purposes, the management canister behaves like a canister, i.e. it can accept messages from users or other canisters and can respond to those messages just like any other canister.

> The address of the ICP management canister is `aaaaa-aa` (i.e. the empty blob). It is present on any ICP subnet. By using this address, a canister can  access the management canister either on the local or remote subnet -- ICP will take care of routing the request to the appropriate subnet transparently. The cost of making the call is charged to the calling canister just like any other inter-canister call.

Author: > We might want to add a sentence that certain functionality like threshold signing and access to the Bitcoin network is only implemented on certain subnets.

Yeah sure.

> A graphic could also illustrate that the management canister abstracts functionalities of other canisters behind the scenes.

This is only the case for the bitcoin apis and I think it might be too advanced, even for an advanced features page and could even create extra confusion.

> The address of the ICP management canister is `aaaaa-aa` (i.e. the empty blob). It is present on any ICP subnet. By using this address, a canister can  access the management canister either on the local or remote subnet -- ICP will take care of routing the request to the appropriate subnet transparently. The cost of making the call is charged to the calling canister just like any other inter-canister call.

Author: I added a note about 

> We might want to add a sentence that certain functionality like threshold signing and access to the Bitcoin network is only implemented on certain subnets.

    args: [{ settings: None, sender_canister_version: None }],
    cycles: 50_000_000_000_000n
  });
})
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
@update
def get_raw_rand() -> Async[RawRandResult]:
    raw_rand_call_result: CallResult[blob] = yield management_canister.raw_rand()

    return match(
        raw_rand_call_result,
        {
            "Ok": lambda randomness: {"Ok": randomness},
            "Err": lambda err: {"Err": err},
        },
    )
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Typical workflows involving the management canister

The management canister offers a variety of endpoints that provide access to special features available on ICP. These can be grouped into a few main areas. Let's explore some of those.

### Managing canisters

The most commonly used apis of the management canister are those that are related to managing canisters. These include operations like creating or installing canisters, changing their settings or even uninstalling or deleting canisters. These operations are typically only permitted to be called by controllers of the canister.

### Signing and submitting bitcoin transactions

> One of the special features of ICP is its direct integration with the Bitcoin network. This is exposed to users through a set of apis on the management canister that allow users to sign transactions using threshold ECDSA signatures and submit transactions to the Bitcoin network, all done through smart contracts on ICP. The relevant apis here would be [sign_with_ecdsa](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-sign_with_ecdsa) and [bitcoin_send_transaction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-bitcoin_send_transaction).

Author: Yeah I think we mostly use APIs, so I'll switch to that.

[Read more about ICP's direct integration with Bitcoin.](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/bitcoin/)

### Http Outcalls

> One more special feature of ICP is the ability for canisters to make http requests to off-chain systems using the [HTTP outcalls](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/https-outcalls/https-outcalls-overview) feature. This is available through the management canister's [http_request](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-http_request) api. HTTP outcalls enable canisters to obtain off-chain data or interact with Web2 services or enterprise IT systems off-chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One more special feature of ICP is the ability for canisters to make http requests to off-chain systems using the [HTTPS outcalls](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/https-outcalls/https-outcalls-overview) feature. This is available through the management canister's [http_request](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-http_request) api. HTTPS outcalls enable canisters to obtain off-chain data, call RPC services of other blockchain networks,  or interact with Web2 services and enterprise IT systems.
```

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ICP Management Canister

## Overview

The ICP management canister is used to provide access to system features, such as managing canisters, integrating with Bitcoin, making HTTPS outcalls, signing with threshold ECDSA, and securely retrieving randomness.

The management canister is a virtual canister in the sense that it does not exist with an isolated state or Wasm module, but rather is implemented as part of ICP itself. For most practical purposes, the management canister behaves like a canister, i.e. it can accept messages from users or other canisters and can respond to those messages just like any other canister.

The address of the ICP management canister is `aaaaa-aa` (i.e. the empty blob). It is present on any ICP subnet. By using this address, a canister can  access the management canister either on the local or remote subnet -- ICP will take care of routing the request to the appropriate subnet transparently. The cost of making the call is charged to the calling canister just like any other inter-canister call.

:::note

> Certain functionality like threshold signing and access to the bitcoin APIs is only enabled on certain subnets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certain functionalities, such as threshold signing or access to the bitcoin APIs, are only enabled on certain subnets.
```

:::

> The management canister can also be called by users. Most methods are only permitted to be called by the [controllers](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/smart-contracts/maintain/control/) of the canister. Certain calls can only be made by a canister and are not available for users.(e.g. `raw_rand` or `deposit_cycles`). When a user makes a call to the management canister, the cost of processing the request is charged to the canister that is being managed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The management canister can also be called by users. Most methods are only permitted to be called by the [controllers](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/smart-contracts/maintain/control/) of the canister. Certain calls can only be made by a canister and are not available for users (e.g. `raw_rand` or `deposit_cycles`). When a user makes a call to the management canister, the cost of processing the request is charged to the canister that is being managed. 
```

[Read more about the complete interface of the management canister.](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-candid)

## Why does the management canister exist?

You might be familiar with the [System API](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#system-api) that allows canisters to interact with other canisters and perform special actions like sending messages or transferring cycles. A natural expectation would be to provide canister management through the same System API. However, the System API only works for synchronous calls that can be returned immediately. Some of the canister management operations are asynchronous in nature – the controlled canister might not even be in the same subnet as the controller. Therefore, an asynchronous API is needed.

> One option would be to build a custom asynchronous message passing protocol as an extension to the System API to support the canister management operations. This would require  re-implementing (to some extent) a lot of the mechanics that exist already to support ICP's message passing model through inter-canister calls. Providing this functionality through a virtual canister, i.e. the management canister, allows for ICP to reuse a lot of the mechanics that are already available and provides a familiar approach to users and canisters to access this API through inter-canister calls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Providing this functionality through a virtual canister, i.e. the management canister, allows for ICP to reuse a lot of the mechanics that are already available and provides a familiar approach to users and canisters to access this API through inter-canister calls.
```

## How can you interact with the management canister?

> Since the management canister behaves like a canister, users or other canisters can call its provided interfaces like they can do with any other canister on ICP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the management canister behaves like a canister, users or other canisters can call its provided interfaces like any other canister on ICP.
```

> Examples calling the management canister

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some examples calling the management canister:
```

        mode: CanisterInstallMode::Install,
        canister_id,
        wasm_module,
        arg: vec![],
        sender_canister_version: None,
    };
    install_code(arg).await;
}
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```typescript
createCanister: update([], CreateCanisterResult, async () => {
  return await ic.call(managementCanister.create_canister, {
    args: [{ settings: None, sender_canister_version: None }],
    cycles: 50_000_000_000_000n
  });
})
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="python" label="Python">

```python
@update
def get_raw_rand() -> Async[RawRandResult]:
    raw_rand_call_result: CallResult[blob] = yield management_canister.raw_rand()

    return match(
        raw_rand_call_result,
        {
            "Ok": lambda randomness: {"Ok": randomness},
            "Err": lambda err: {"Err": err},
        },
    )
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Typical workflows involving the management canister

The management canister offers a variety of endpoints that provide access to special features available on ICP. These can be grouped into a few main areas. Let's explore some of those.

### Managing canisters

> The most commonly used APIs of the management canister are those that are related to managing canisters. These include operations like creating or installing canisters, changing their settings or even uninstalling or deleting canisters. These operations are typically only permitted to be called by controllers of the canister.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most commonly used APIs of the management canister are those that are related to managing canisters. These include operations like creating or installing canisters, changing their settings or uninstalling and deleting canisters. These operations are typically only permitted to be called by controllers of the canister.
```

### Signing and submitting Bitcoin transactions

> One of the special features of ICP is its direct integration with the Bitcoin network. This is exposed to users through a set of APIs on the management canister that allow users to sign transactions using threshold ECDSA signatures and submit transactions to the Bitcoin network, all done through smart contracts on ICP. The relevant APIs here would be [sign_with_ecdsa](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-sign_with_ecdsa) and [bitcoin_send_transaction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-bitcoin_send_transaction).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the special features of ICP is its direct integration with the [Bitcoin](/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/bitcoin/) network. This is exposed to users through a set of APIs on the management canister that allow users to sign transactions using [threshold ECDSA](/docs/current/developer-docs/smart-contracts/encryption/t-ecdsa) signatures and submit transactions to the Bitcoin network, all done through smart contracts on ICP. The relevant APIs are [sign_with_ecdsa](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-sign_with_ecdsa) and [bitcoin_send_transaction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-bitcoin_send_transaction).
```

[Read more about ICP's direct integration with Bitcoin.](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/bitcoin/)

> ### HTTPS Outcalls

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HTTPS outcalls
```

One more special feature of ICP is the ability for canisters to make http requests to off-chain systems using the [HTTPS outcalls](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/integrations/https-outcalls/https-outcalls-overview) feature. This is available through the management canister's [http_request](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec#ic-http_request) API. HTTPS outcalls enable canisters to obtain off-chain data, call RPC services of other blockchain networks, or interact with Web2 services and enterprise IT systems off-chain.

> ### Retrieving Randomness

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Retrieving randomness
```
